hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neonews
today.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode of the smart economy
podcast I chat with Len sir the
investment lead at Mex Seas M Ventures
and Labs Maxi is a custodial exchange
founded in 2018 that boasts more than 7
million users worldwide and supports
more than 1600 cryptocurrencies and
Ventures and Labs is a comprehensive
fund committed to empowering Innovations
in the cryptocurrency field via
Strategic investment mergers and
Acquisitions funds of funds and project
incubation in this conversation Len and
I talk about his background in equity
Venture investment and entrance into the
blockchain space the vast rules that a
VC he plays and the incubation of ideas
and projects the focus areas of
Adventures and Labs strategies for
reviewing lots and lots of projects his
insights into Neo's recent decoding web
3 University tour and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Len and I hope you
enjoy the conversation too
hey guys welcome to the smart economy
podcast today we are joined by Len sir
the investment lead at mexc's M Venture
and Labs how are you doing today Len I'm
doing I'm good how are you doing I'm
doing awesome we just uh made it past
last week and for reference and context
for people who are listening to this
episode in the future uh we're one week
post the FTX collapse so before we kind
of get into the meat of the conversation
today I just wanted to hear from your
perspective uh how did that whole Fiasco
impact what's going on with you and in
your world and what are just some
insights you might have personally I am
fortunately not affected by the incident
but as for the industry it came as quite
a bit of a shock and many of my friends
took direct many of my friends um many
of the investment institutions the fund
managers manual the projects who have
funds on FDX receive the direct blows I
think that's a great that's quite a
clear picture and although Miss handling
your fund and all that is definitely
No-No as a result I do think that this
incident does help piercing the bubbles
um accelerating the deleveraging at this
downturn of the market for the whole
industry and uh I think in the longer
runs for institutions who made mistakes
to expose the mistakes that would be a
good thing one does push for the overall
industry to strive for more transparency
and two we yes we're in the bear Market
we have been in this deliberation effort
and that does push that progress a
little bit more forward
show that with less inflation with less
inflated asset prices everyone part
everybody participant in the industry
could get a chance actually to take a
breather probably not for those who have
fun stuck that's a black holes but
overall it does give us the chance to
rethink uh one by six we've encountered
what are the technical constraints that
we have seen both in centralized and
decentralized web services and how can
we build on top of what we've already
had but we're on some iteration trial by
mistakes maybe some bubbles bursts and
we do that again we rings to repeat
brings and repeat awesome thanks for
sharing your insights mexc is a
large-scale custodial exchange so it's
nice to hear just kind of what is going
on under the hood and like what you guys
are thinking about as this kind of
unfolds so to introduce you to the
listeners of the smart economy podcast
can you tell us who you are what you do
and what your path was into becoming the
investment lead at M Ventures and labs
put it out in uh
uh Equity Venture investment way back
when
um mostly you focus on think
Technologies and that thing started in
2015 2016. some projects some Founders
were starting to say hey we're going to
use blockchain technology as the basis
or whatever just in The decentralized
Ledger technology as the basis of our
services and that's like hey what this
is
a little bit deeper and say hey this is
the Revolution and I turn full crypto in
2017. so it's still uh an apartment
Market bunch of Investments but also did
the project incubation product
development and also ran for a very
short period of time a secondary market
trading fund a proud fund a very small
scale was way too tiresome and decided
to focus on the investment part later I
joined the mxc in the spring of 2022
because I wanted to sort of attack
myself to a larger organization and the
custodial exchanges is still a category
of major players in the crypto industry
and I think this is where I can affects
some positive change because through
Investments I mean unlike individual
gplp structured uh bonds we are the
Strategic investment arm for a customer
exchange so through investment what we
hope to do is not only participate in
and Foster development 4 that's growing
emerging new revolutionary products
projects and people but also we invest
for the Strategic development of our own
company or of our own base a core
business as well so that's how we got
here and that's where we are I'm
actually you know started out in 2018
grew pretty fast in the last downturn of
the market right now we're a team of
approximately a thousand people with
eight digits user base across 170
regions in the globe and we do pride
ourselves for offering a lot of services
for over 900 crypto assets I think
that's one of the most comprehensive
selection amongst the market yeah and
you did mention that there is a role for
custodial exchanges moving forward
there's a high learning curve when it
comes to maintaining your own keys and
protecting your assets so right now
we're probably in the wake of people
maybe being scared of custodial
exchanges so how do you kind of make
folks feel safer or a little bit better
about custodial exchanges because right
now in the news cycle the whole thing is
get your keys off of exchanges and and
hold on to your own assets what are
maybe some of the counter points to the
current Trend in narrative I'm in full
support uh for people who want to take
their assets out of any kind of custody
service into their own decentralized
wallet just for a peace of mind I mean
for support of that because that's what
block is for if you want to make
absolutely sure that you're the only one
who can access your assets then you are
able to do that because we have this
technology but in terms of the customer
relations between users and centralized
exchanges
I think it's like every other business
it's like every business where I mean
technology can guarantee the safety of
your assets but whoever is running the
protocol whoever is running your service
either decentralized or centralized
custody or non-custodial it's a
relationship of trust you see some
actors they hit me in a bad way and you
do Wonder other actors in the same
category do they do the same and now the
burden of proof is resting on the
shoulders of centralized exchanges and
we have seen in the past week that a
bunch of us are providing proof of
Reserve are claiming that yes we're 100
and if you do want to test out test that
out yeah they feel withdrawals and if
you do feel safe then yeah the possible
deposit your assets back into the
platform and continue using the services
we're providing and that's basically it
but overall we do need as an industry a
little bit of more self-regulation and a
little bit of self-published
transparency that I think all of the
custodial services not including but not
limited to centralized exchanges that we
should by ourselves provide some kind of
transparency so that our users can have
a peace of mind and in return kind of
pushing us as custodial service more
connected to the decentralized tech
stack yeah that's uh really refreshing
to hear to just say hey if you want to
take your assets off go for it we're
back one to one really nice to hear a a
representative of a custodial exchange
say that so you don't necessarily work
at mexc the exchange you're part of the
ventures and Labs Branch yes so can you
just share a little bit of the
differences between the two it's under
the same hood and that's under the
umbrella of uh Maxi The Exchange I'm not
on the exchange operation side
um on the investment in education side
the ventures part and those Investments
and incubation part handles there are
multiple words for what we do the remote
was sayings to describe what we do but
mostly what I do is provide any kind of
services to help projects to grow from I
don't want to call necessarily zero to
one maybe 0.2 to at least 0.7 I'm not
sure if that makes sense but uh yeah we
are not so you get you get what I mean
and that includes project positioning
liquidity release strategy PR marketing
strategies and uh fundraise
collaboration so on and so forth
basically whatever the project needs to
hit the target hit them up hit the next
Milestone and that's what her provide
and the winter side handles the
investment purely we're on the same Hood
integrated team and we're very open to
collaborations with other institutions
either at Venture Studio or a group of
developers or other investment
institutions or other exchanges where
we're open to that awesome so how long
has M Ventures and Labs been around it
seems like the entity Ventures and Labs
is relatively new beforehand there was
an M Labs so what was M labs and what
has the merge kind of done for that
entity okay I'm glad you asked that
that's actually on us when a mixing the
organization that the exchange started
back in 2018 very shortly after we
started making investment we started
making a current American Investment we
started helping products to grow but uh
that's the last part we have not been
very vocal about our involvements we
just kept our head down help the
projects cut the checks and that was it
and then we realized that's got to
change we want to put the words out we
want to let people know that we are
employed we have been in play and we
have been helping projects and so we
want to get the words out so that people
project teams students even who want to
learn about us who want to get involved
can have a an additional resource that
is us that I can take come chat with us
come ask us for investment come ask us
for Network introductions come ask us
but almost anything so long as this is
for the overall development of the
crypto and blockchain Industry so video
branding put the words out hello party
and say hey guys we've been here we are
in lynchers we're mlaps and we hope
that's what you guys call us from now on
and here's what we've been doing and
we'll continue doing so even during the
downturn of the market even after a a
bunch of collapses of a prominent
institutions or projects or just the
General market we still believe in the
long-term development of the industry as
a whole and with being continuing
investment so we've been continuing our
incubations we've been continuing our
listening practices on the exchange and
operation site and uh if you're still in
the game if you still believe this if
you have an idea come chat with that
that's basically the message cool so the
the merge was really just to kind of put
the Venture side at the Forefront you
guys were there the entire time but now
the new name just kind of says this is
who we are and what we've been doing so
what are some examples of projects that
adventures in Labs has invested in
incubated
um I know you probably have a bunch of
babies you're really proud of so would
you like to talk a little bit about some
of them personally I've only joined
since this spring and many of the
projects I'm involved in are still
underway so I really can't not talk
about that in a very clear plain
language but in the past we've uh
supported our investors for quite a few
lines quite a few middleware projects
and a bunch of application and projects
we've also served as those you know
validators or data providers for oracles
for l1s and things like that cool I got
you do you want me to name it do you
want me to name them or yeah if you if
you don't feel comfortable or confident
in naming them then we don't have to
adopt anyone right now I'm sure in due
time we'll hear more about Maxi's uh
amazing projects that they've incubated
um so I noticed in my research that the
M Ventures and mlabs team formed
recently officially but you guys have
been there for quite some time there are
three primary focus areas that the team
is focusing on web3 the new public chain
ecosystem and infrastructure so can you
just share a little bit of insight into
how the team chose these three core
areas to focus on as in the investment
arm for a centralized exchange our
thesis is a little bit different from
the purely GPL Venture funds first of
all we are changing who are stage
agnostic without vertical agnostic okay
that does not put us in a good light
that sounds like we're doing just trying
to do everything but that is actually
what we're trying to do get we don't
turn down things oh if you're making a
dit project then no no no no if you're
making an L1 then say yes yes yes that's
not who we are if you're making the idea
project tell us how tell us how you can
do it tell us why you're doing it so we
come in we're pitching our thoughts on
that we're pushing our research on that
and say hey this man with a little tweak
this might be a very good uh application
or very good service to the rest of the
applications then yeah we can go ahead
on that so there's that and we do have
different uh people principles or or
Focus guys on different areas and the
ones the infrastructures and the web
through application stack that you just
mentioned are some of the interest areas
that our team feel comfortable one
investment investing in and to feel
confident for an imminent
scaling up the infrastructure wise of
course that's the technical basis for
the whole industry and every time we go
through April and the bear Market we see
boomings of applications which in turn
tells us hey we are just very limited by
the technical basis and we do need to
make some upgrades to that area and
infrastructure building is a constant
theme I understand that uh almost every
investment institutions in this industry
is focusing on that part and on the
application and I think that's also kind
of a natural a given concept where we
were talking about the blockchain the
decentralized part of any kind of
product or project in this industry it's
still but they're all still web-based or
services and the services and the
application and should should be the
ones capturing the most value because
they're the ones creating those values
for the user base
so we're focusing on that part as well
because what good does it do if we have
pages and pages and Scrolls and Scrolls
of code of the product and no one is
able to use it via a simplified UI but
only for ones who can code and recode
and type codes can interact with the
with a tech stack that's just not how it
works right ultimately what we are
hoping for the blockchain as a category
of Technologies and the blockchain as an
industry we're hoping for these two to
do is to build a stack from technical
infrastructure to business
infrastructures the key point the
cornerstones of each the verticals
applications and to the end user
application the whole stack we have on a
balanced fully developed stack to
provide services to the individual users
and that's I think that's the ultimate
goal for all of us in this industry we
also do periodic reviews of our
investment thesis because unlike unlike
other visas who have fun lives too or
about we act a little bit differently we
appropriate a percentage of our revenues
as the principal for our investment so
we actually are able to take the risks
in the longer terms versus in the longer
terms we allow and we actually me
personally I do actually encourage
projects to Pivot if and when they see
an opportunity and see I'm all about the
iteration part like here's the check
here's the check here are the checks
from a bunch of other investors and
here's what you propose to do we've
reviewed it you guys have understood it
you guys proposed it let's try it out if
it works to a certain degree let's fix
all the bugs if it doesn't work what
went wrong let's figure that part out
cool it's nice to hear that you're
supportive of the pivot because
sometimes we can go into a project or an
idea and then after six months eight
months ten months whatever we realize oh
we thought that it was this but we can
pivot to provide a better service based
off of what we're really trying to work
on you mentioned earlier that you can't
really talk about specific projects that
you guys are investing in in incubating
right now so maybe this question might
help get to the core of what I was
wondering a little bit about what are
sort of the infrastructures that are
interesting to Maxi's M labs and
Ventures Branch are you guys interested
in oracles right now is it decentralized
networks generally Bridges what are kind
of like the trending kind of types of
infrastructure we are focusing on let's
take infrastructure the word
infrastructure for instance we're
focusing on two categories or or two
aspects of the infrastructure per se one
is in the technical sense and one is in
the business process sense technicians
it's a pretty straightforward I mean it
will categorize l1's Roll-Ups zks all of
those and bridges and oracles all of
those into the the tech infrastructure
category right you can agree or
distribute but yes that's one thing
we're focusing on and we personally I
think the uh skill of anything to do
with scalability is a HP of this round
iteration or development or upgrades so
to speak and one called patches because
that sounds cheap but it's essentially
what they are we have an English the
existing skeleton of a network that runs
pretty smoothly but it's pretty
expensive and slow and if you see what
happened in the past two to three uh two
years let's not go to that far we can
see that the network is congested
basically means the servers are not
supporting the end user use case so how
can we make that the basis of the
service more reliable or more scalable
have more bandwidth without compromising
the security part so that the text part
so the scalability part any L2 any L2
and kind of roll up that's what we're
focusing on and another aspect of the
infrastructure is what I call we can
call Key business or it can call
business infrastructure what I mean by
that is uh the projects or the
applications or the services with then a
particular vertical that functions as
the Bedrock or anything happens within
that vertical let's take a D5 for for
instance D5 the core of the D5 is the
five part right it's Finance parenthesis
industry and this is back in a
decentralized fashion and the core
functionalities or services that
institutions and individual investors
need is one exchange for the token swaps
two oracles show that to any kind of
training activities have some kind of
price feeder three lending we have seen
uh very many collateralized loan
protocols or we haven't really seen any
prominent let's say fixed rate for
Lending products which if you compare
that compare the device sphere to the
traditional Finance fear the fixed rate
products is one of the key things that
we're missing yes they are products
there are protocols for fixed rate
learning to my knowledge none of them
have really taken off and most of them
rely on the amm models for the liquidity
and if you look at the numbers there is
significant Market inefficiency if there
are other projects or or someone coming
up with the Brooklyn idea say hey here's
how we do it in a decentralized way I
think that's going to be the lack of
better words huge yeah it's really
interesting the way you break down the
types of services that go into D5 and
then kind of the photo Focus areas for
how to look into investing or incubating
into those teams and projects when we
were on tour we recently did the
decoding web 3 tour and you participated
in panels on a lot of the West Coast
universities and um I felt like I lobbed
you a really fastball question out of
nowhere like what is web3 and he did a
great job of answering it so I I hope I
didn't put you too much on the spot then
but your answer really got a lot of
wheels turning for me because it was
basically the thesis of web3 is the
ability for us to own our own data and
to take that with us wherever we want
now what are some of the projects that
come to your plate at Maxi what are some
of the web 3 projects that folks are
presenting to you guys and asking for
investment and incubation in and is it
something as simple as just nfts or just
D5 or or are there additional focuses in
the web 3 space that you guys are
looking into oh you're asking about the
projects that come to us or the ones
that we would like to focus on that's a
great question in it of itself what are
the web3 projects coming to you what's
the general Trend with them because I
know you can't mention specific projects
so what's the general trend of web3
projects coming to you and what do you
and your team think should be the next
wave of investment into web three living
asked by the E5 projects starting way
back when 2019-ish
and then more D5 protocols in 2022 in
2020 then there were in the website
since uh the broader represents we had
game fair projects we had nft projects
we had the metaverse creations and then
we had music and empties we had more
gaming projects because we're talking
about we're talking in the web 3
application side of things right so so
we're not I'm not counting the lens I'll
choose roll ups in the case and whatnot
yeah those were the sequence of uh
concentration of projects that were
coming in and uh it was I would say a
very logical flow of things where when
the text like the basics the basics of
the tech stack is ready then the first
batch of applications got to be
something to do with the asset exchanges
right and then for a better uh user
experience for better user acquisition
processes the gameplay projects the X to
earn so to speak projects
um have gained retraction and naturally
Founders who've considered those type of
projects were trying to say hey this is
taking off let's get in that's basically
it for us we welcome any and all
experiments to apply decentralized
technology to whatever the end web
services that many of us are thinking or
using probably using on a daily basis
but with the caveat of asking us the
hard questions why blockchain do you
have to do that in a decentralized way
if so then let's work out the strategy
to make that work if no then let's
rethink that how many projects on maybe
like a weekly or a monthly basis are
being put on your plate to evaluate I
would have to imagine you have to review
a ton of different types of projects so
what's like the the flow for the the
number of projects on average that fall
onto your plate like on a monthly basis
and what's your strategy for kind of
going through all of them and keeping
your finger on the pulse because there's
so much that goes into to web 3 just
based off the projects you you listed
off alone you kind of have to be an
expert in a lot of different areas so
what's that like how many projects are
coming onto your plate and how do you
manage digging through and really like
rocking what they represent okay uh
volume wise I would say on a monthly
basis we as a team review 20 to 120
cases so depending on you mean there are
sometimes there are huge influxes of
projects raising funds and sometimes the
numbers lower uh you get the point but
yeah that's about the volume we've been
experiencing on your second question I
do make a point trying to avoid becoming
a jack of all trades and expert of none
I do not claim to be an expert in
everything like I said before each of us
and and Ventures have a interest in
Focus area and if we run across a
project that we are not so familiar with
for the vertical offered project for the
problems in that specific area of web
services then yes we have our teammates
our colleagues to talk to to consult
with and so we do have our own Tech
advisor that we have our own Tech teams
that we can consult with and we do build
our network of investors developers
users and Founders work in constant
conversation to understand why whatever
proposal that was came into being what
the problems they're trying to solve and
this that proposal is the solution
proposed
logically sound technically feasible
right and um it is kind of hard to keep
tabs on almost everything or from the
other ones saying that he just doesn't
go uh crypto Twitter because it the
sheer amount of information is going to
overwhelm almost everyone but uh what I
do is that uh a key source of learning
yes obviously everyone's a key learning
and a key source for my learning comes
from the founders I meet because they
are the ones actually proposing a
solution to a specific set of problems
and uh us would be in the perfect
position to ask what do you think the
problem is why do you think that is and
how do you propose to solve them do we
see logical errors in your proposal do
we see anything else that bothers you
from implementing that solution and you
do get to meet very many smart people
people who say everybody thinks this but
no I've been doing this for a long time
I know exactly what the problem is and I
think that blockchain technology or
whatever I'm proposing is going to solve
this problem for the first two points
yes I've been I've been doing this for a
long time I know what the problem is yes
we I think almost everyone rely on the
founders and to say that yes we do our
due diligence and we are verifications
we have our own research but yeah if
you're saying the problem is and we see
that too so the next step is usually
where most of us include I'm talking
Founders and investors all together uh
that's where the next step would be most
where most of us have problems with is
that the statement of I think blockchain
technology is going to solve this
problem so that segment the answer is
usually yes and no yes the technology
can essentially reduce the risk of
single point of failure something
something something in the purpose that
they are making the problems that you
have that you identify but does it have
to be that because as we all probably
know blockchain technology is still in
its infancy and if you're trying to use
that limited tech power to solve a big
problem for lack of better words then we
do have quite of a long road ahead to
make a decentralized based technology
able to service the problem that you
identified that's a really interesting
way and and why I'm really happy to have
you on the Pod because I I don't get to
pick VC's investment leads brains very
often and so it's really interesting to
hear that the way we go about learning
about projects is by listening to the
founders who they themselves have been
in the weeds identified a problem and
then tell us what they think that
solution is and then you get to jump off
from that as a launch point so it's
almost as if they present to you what
the problem is and then you get to bring
your your Insight expertise decent skill
into evaluating the project thanks for
sharing that the way I view BC's job is
to allocate resources to Foster growth
obviously if we other songs we have LPS
we also have two we also have a
fiduciary responsibilities for our keys
but
in the end what we're doing is
allocating resources dependencies money
and probably other stuff to projects
that we think yes propose a a sound
solution and can say hey if this works
it's going to solve the problem for the
industry for
are many whatever scale and that could
be a positive change and that's why we
do it yes we do I mean we're not going
into project and saying hey I know
nothing tell me what you know right
that's not how it works yes we do have
our research and we do try to come up
with uh solutions for in a specific
industry ourselves in the broader sense
and when we encounter Founders that
think alike say hey okay here we go so
that's when the magic happens and that
is basically how I think most uh PCS
actively stores the type of projects or
innovations that they want it's because
okay I think that here's the problem I
think the solution for that problem
could be in ABC one of the three forms
let me dive deeper into all of those
three and see on the market and see the
developer Community who's making what
and if you see enough projects to get an
understanding of okay here are the three
problems that or here are the three Loop
codes that most Runners have fallen into
here are the common solutions for those
so that if you're trying to solve this
problem you encounter this one so that
I'm telling you this so you don't have
to go into that dead end again that's
very cool you also get to as a VC be the
purveyor of knowledge where you've
probably heard of a few projects like
this before and you can avoid uh new
Founders from going into dead ends so
that's that's some really interesting
Insight I want to gain some of your
perspective on another piece of insight
as I mentioned earlier in the show we
had participated in a bunch of panels on
Neo's decoding web 3 tour so I believe
we were at three or four different
universities that we collaborated on a
panel together
what was your sort of vibe on the
college campuses and how students are
thinking about blockchain crypto web 3
what were some of your insights from you
know the way that students think today
yes I had the privilege of uh speaking
on panels with you for a couple of
events and I did get to chat with a few
students there someone we kept in
contact
UM the overall sense I got from the
audience mostly students uh was that uh
the Curiosity there is immense right
there's a bunch of curiosity people or
these specialist students are very
anxious to know what blockchain itself
is what it does what it means for in a
broader sense for the web services that
we use today as opposed to us as the
industry practitioners see what it could
be in the next decade or two and uh
think that the next year amount of
questions that the students have is
astonishing the sense I get is uh that I
think it's for anyone who's interested
in that industry it's going to be a very
steep learning curve I don't think many
of us especially in the even in the
industry who call themselves LG's have
not been in in this industry for more
than 10 years because it eventually
itself is not that okay yeah okay we
just hit the mark but it's not much far
not much older than that right so we're
all learning I like what you said about
uh if you start today you are one day
ahead of the guy who's starting next
people who join the industry in 2017 had
a steep learning curve and still around
still on that curve and if you're
joining today yes you have a little bit
of catching up to do but you're in not
according per se but as long as you're
here it's everybody's job and
everybody's responsibility to learn
about this so the Curiosity part is what
I get the one point I get from the
students and a second point or feeling I
get from the students is that some of
them are actively Building Products or
putting them protocols trying to make
something of themselves solve a problem
become famous make money for all of the
valid reasons right student Founders as
a group the feeling I get is that they
tend to get very excited on a feature
that they're proposing and they've made
and most likely an MVP for that feature
for that functionality and it's good
many of them are very good but in order
for that notion that idea to burst into
a full-bone project very often Austin it
lacks a little meat if let me rephrase
that a feature Innovation does not
suffice a full-blown project because the
way I look at it is that if you're
making something new if you're trying it
out yeah that's a very good way to get
your feet wet but at some point Founders
especially if anyone especially Founders
need to start think bigger pictures not
as in yes I'm gonna solve work hunger
and and build World Peace within the
next day but you gotta think about where
your Venture is going the baby product
you make can it survive if you throw it
out into the real world right and if
it's just a feature one functionality
that's fun and cool
sure that's great but do we need to add
something to that to make it a complete
or or self-sufficient kind of machine so
that it runs decent in this direction
because most likely you deploy it you're
going to use it as is yes there are
there are opportunities for you to make
adjustments to make upgrades but uh do
you worry about your wrong way do you
worry about people finding out that it's
not sufficient so they've moved on to
the next project and your product
doesn't get enough viewership or user
base and again I'm not advocating for
every founder for every project you say
yes we are the all-in-one solution for
every problem that you're going to
encounter in the world right I'm not I'm
not advocating that but it's never a bad
idea to think about how does this
project fit with the rest of the Lego
pieces in the industry right because yes
we're advocating for the Lego part but
if you look like an L-shaped logo you're
not going to sit on the square hole in
in the rest of the Lego stack
if your default protocol chances are
your users will rely on the lending
practices of other protocols will rely
on the liquidation practices for other
from other users then the question for
you to think about is that how is your
project sitting with the rest of the
other practices and by state I mean is
your solution technically feasible
is the business logic cell is your user
experience smooth and if all that checks
out you've got a straight storybook and
you've got a good storyline and you're
trying to make it happen chances are
you're gonna need funding you're gonna
need outside help and that brings us to
the next batch of questions is your
evaluation reasonable for a feature two
functionalities or a full-blown project
or how you how where and how you're
connected to the rest of the
decentralized world and uh for the
evaluation the the funds you're getting
is that enough for you to build what you
want to build is that enough for some
kind of room of risk management is that
enough for you to hire people is that
enough for you if you want to Pivot is
the project going to be able to earn a
profit on itself to feed back into the
development cycle that that comes then
comes the second batch of questions if
every question on those two categories
check out then usually there is a good
chance for this project to succeed at
least making it a meaningful impact to
the industry yeah that's fascinating
insight into the work of a VC where you
can look at uh and we and it's amazing
that you took that from what students
were thinking and then just describe the
whole thought process where a founder or
a student founder can be so psyched on
this one killer feature that they have
but then you're there to remind them
that this is just one piece of the
puzzle and you need to have the whole
comprehensive picture solve if you even
want to get this killer feature out
because you need to have so many more
ideas figured out where is it going to
fit in who are you going to collaborate
with how are you going to hire just
forcing the founder to ask all these
questions before they're really ready to
produce the product at a larger scale
really really interesting insight and
something that I'm really curious about
is how do the suggestions and questions
that you ask Founders and and student
Founders even just in general how do
these change along with the major
narrative changes over time so like in
2017 it was all about the icos and maybe
we were talking about raising in 2020 it
was all about Define maybe we were
talking about integrating Define 2021 it
was all about nfts maybe we integrated
an nft so how do these major narrative
shifts that happen in our industry over
time impact the sort of advice that you
give to Founders and help them grow
their products out I wouldn't say the um
shifts in um what's the word you used
market trends yeah I I wouldn't say that
the shifts to market trends necessarily
have a direct impact on what I tell
Founders what I tell students want to
tell developers whoever's working on a
project right I don't think that has a
direct impact on what I say because I
don't think the shifts in market trends
I don't think them as the overall
development of the whole industry is the
sh I call them shifts in Hypes or in
Market Focus people are focusing on D5
stuff right now people are foot and then
people are focusing on and t-stop right
now or hey metaverse became a thing
something something became a thing
that's basically what we're calling
market trends are and say if someone is
working in uh working on the D5 project
that facilitates asset swaps chances are
or chances are very low for this project
at or her project at early stage to deal
with non-flungible assets illiquid
assets in the first two months right
they're going to focus on what they're
going to focus their ability energy to a
specific problem they're going to solve
so I don't think the verticals or
categories of market trends or the high
type the focus areas necessarily affect
each other I want to usually try to
figure out with the founders that how
does your object or products fit into
the relevant stuff the relevant Lego
pieces in your vertical yes down the
road there are going to be a chance or
two for that part to expand like say if
you're running a service desk to service
token swaps can you swap for nft yes the
code change is not that difficult but
there's the code development there's
also project operation and if you're
running two lines of businesses you do
need two groups of people or at least
more people for that to happen that
brings us down from the code side on the
computer side down to the real world say
how do we get people interested how do
we understand their needs do the trading
behaviors and mentalities of nft Traders
differ from SpongeBob token traders to
spot Market users mentality differ from
that of the Futures Market or people
trading options or people only do Hedges
right so those are the questions I'm
trying to get them to answer and there
is I would say a longer term Market
shift let's not go back too early we
were talking about 2017 Ico and then
later on we discovered that there are
ideals that are ideals there are I
something something out there are a
bunch of the acronyms right do they
really differ so much from each other
not really they're all means through
which projects protocols race funds and
put their public asset not publicizing
Public Access not Public Access
ownership right public asset to a a
completely open pool or pools of
liquidity so that people participating
in the web service in your service in
your protocol have the chance to
interact with the assets that certainly
use in order to use the protocol if you
need it you buy it if you earned it you
sell it and then it's one of the core
mechanisms or rationales behind
decentralized economies where say hey
we're putting we're integrating the
economic aspect into the tech product
in Hope or by back-end buy calculation
and with the hope that it becomes
self-sufficient it becomes our
self-reliant and becomes resilient as a
whole meaning with together with other
projects awesome wrapping up I want to
ask one last question I am a subscriber
to the multi-chain thesis that moving
forward there's going to be a world
where multiple chains exist and they
serve multiple purposes it's not just
going to be a one chain wins all what is
your perspective on Dino chains like
darling chains from the Ico era and how
do they kind of fulfill a role that's
necessary in the blockchain space today
and what does that mean for new chains
that are just launching right now or
that might be launching in the future
that's a big topic uh let me try to
break it down a little bit
okay first
um first way I'm gonna I'm gonna go
about this is that when we call some
protocol a Dyno chain it means they're
old but is the team still working on
stuff that's relevant that's up to the
most recent Tech standards that whether
they're doing that is a kind of a big
differentiator between right because it
could either be just immune if you're if
you're a dino Chang and you did propose
some kind of solution uh on the
consensus mechanism back in 2017 but
right now you're only a trading product
you're only a target for speculation on
on token prices token prices apps and
flows and then you've essentially made
yourself a meme coin so to speak right
but if you are still building on your
full Tech stack if you are rolling out
the support system for whoever wants to
build on top of your ecosystem and your
active which one to build a network so
that people can get easier access to
build on or to make test runs to create
experiments on the tech infrastructure
that you created way back when then I
would say yeah go for it you are doing
the industry a big good by providing
helpfully cheap accessible supported
environments for decentralized
application experience right I I use the
word experiment a lot because I don't
think whatever we're doing right now is
going to be in the same form 20 years
from now we are in a constant shift in
changes space so there's that well it's
the second part of the question you did
a great job answering that my second
part of the question was what role do
new blockchain technologies that are
emerging today where do they fit yes I
do subscribe to you the notion of a mode
teaching future and I view l1's as the
web 3 equivalent of idc's in the web 2
world these are the text infrastructure
nodes and their servers and the miners
and whatnot they serve the environment
where smart contracts get executed where
transactions get verified right so those
are the idcs and in the web tool world
we have a couple of web service Giants
to name a few right uh Ali Cloud AWS
Google Cloud so on so forth and some
companies even run their own product and
I think that could be a refreshing
analogy to what blockchain sphere is
going to be like let's say 20 years down
the line there's a multi-ching future
and for the newer ones
one new
gets attention newer
um has and more easily managed
circulating market cap
newer is good at proposing new stuff and
more and better at pivoting because they
didn't have the so much as some of the
technical debt to quote Tyler technical
debt as other lines might have had so
yes they're easier to get the attention
and that I would say a good thing for
business business meaning
experiments on the applications the
investment part the speculating part the
Arbitrage part all that but after the
first look we still need to take a
deeper dive into the newly proposed LL
ones and see out of the trilemma which
one are you compromising what are you
proposing different from the dino Kings
you're trying to replace so to replace
so to speak replaced are you just
another Solana but with a different name
are you another ethereum with another
name are you another Cosmos with just
another name
if so then we might have a problem if
there's nothing wrong per se with the
tech stack from the dino quote unquote
Dyno chains then why are you doing the
exact same thing but the different name
yes you might be able to gain a
different crowd as first adopters
including users including developers
including PR efforts including whatever
that is on there right but if whatever
you're doing is essentially the same
then let's imagine it's five years down
the line are there going to be two level
ones that look almost exactly the same
you can survive simultaneously and share
the market equally I don't think so
sound or one or some of them I'm gonna
point out are gonna be better at
operations better at their branding
management better at attracting users
and developers hence better at actually
building a usable ecosystem and probably
Ebbs and flows well with the micro and
macro economic and financial Cycles so
that when you're putting your foot down
the Gas you are able to go much farther
and faster than if your rights depends
on stumping on the gas in a desert with
rocks and you're in a low ride car
that's going to crash your car that's
going to the the hardware you press on
the gas the harder you're going to hash
so coming back to wrap this up you're
asking me what my opinions on the neural
ones I would say yes break out the new
branding break out the new ecosystem
that's good for consolidating the now
previous uh Market interest and Market
hype and and focus that energy onto
whatever you're building or proposing
would say that's a good start but then
whoever is in running that protocol
whoever's participating in that
ecosystem need to continue the effort of
actual building rather than this is
something new we're just gonna flip it
and move on to the next one that's just
a big No-No awesome Insight I'm very
cognizant of your time so I would love
to ask you what are all the areas that
you're excited about in the short-term
future for web 3 but since we're nearing
the end of our of our allotted time
schedule maybe what's one exciting area
that you're looking forward to in seeing
this space get built out in the short
term okay um I'm quantifying my
understanding of short term to two to
three quarters if we're going off of
that assumption and then I think the the
major theme for the next two to three
quarters is still deleveraging is still
the aftermath of uh 2022 incidents and
events but if we look at a slightly
longer term going to mid-range Outlook
and I Quantified that to two to three
years then I would say I think there are
going to be promises made on the
infrastructure part regarding
scalability and security security
meaning zero knowledge proof security
meaning verifiable asset Reserve or more
user-friendly liquidation mechanisms and
whatnot so those scalability and
security I think that's uh what's really
needed in the short to mid term awesome
Len thank you so much for coming to talk
in the smart economy podcast when we
were on tour together I couldn't wait to
get you on the other end of the mic and
it was an amazing conversation we just
had so if there's a project that wants
to talk to you on behalf of Maxi's
adventures in Labs where can they reach
out and if there's just somebody who
listened and wants to follow along with
what you're doing how can they keep in
contact with you if you want to talk to
anyone including our adventure arm uh at
Maxi to find anyone anywhere who is an
actual part of Mexico team they will
make the internal referrals and and
they're very warm-hearted in doing that
all of us are and you guys can follow my
Twitter at uh well did you post that
later on or do I have to say it because
your Twitter's a bunch of numbers isn't
it right a bunch of uh there's a name in
the numbers it's
l-e-n-s-i-r-13579 they are the numbers
the odd integers we'll link your Twitter
handle to the show notes and to the
Tweet we release but uh we've gone well
over an hour thank you Len for coming to
join the podcast it was phenomenal to
catch up with you it was great to be on
tour with you and I can't wait to see
you again in the future thanks for
having me and thank you for your time it
was a delightful conversation and I wish
that you wouldn't continue this awesome
Cheers Cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation in light of recent events
with the collapse of FTX it was really
refreshing to hear Len acknowledge that
people might want to take their digital
assets off centralized exchanges and
that he welcomed them to do so stating
that yes customer assets on Mexi are
indeed backed one to one it was also
really interesting to learn about the
thought processes of a VC and the role
that they play in the development of the
blockchain industry and it was just nice
to hear Len's take on the role that
older blockchain technologies have in
the broader cryptocurrency space
especially if those teams have continued
to build and iterate on the blockchain
platform over the years
on that note I want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast if you liked what
you heard and want to support the show
please keep Neo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
[Music]